#The Projectile Path Simulation
<p style="text-align: justify;"><strong>Introduction:</strong><br />Projectile motion is a form of motion experienced by an object or particle I.e a projectile that is<br />thrown near the Earth&rsquo;s Surface and moves along a curved path under the influence of gravity. The<br />curved path was shown by Galileo to be a parabola. The study of such motion is called ballistics<br />and such a trajectory is called ballistic trajectory. The gravity is the major force that influence the<br />object downward thus making the object to accelerate downward. Due to the object&rsquo;s inertia there is<br />no need of horizontal force to maintain the horizontal velocity. But, many other external forces like<br />air resistance, friction, aerodynamic drag etc does affect and while also taking in account such<br />forces further complicated analysis has to be done. Newton&rsquo;s law states that force is required to<br />keep object in motion. But, in fact force is not required to object in motion. Force is only required to<br />keep the object in acceleration. In the case of the projectile which is moving upward, there is a<br />downward force and a downward acceleration. This means the object is moving upward due to<br />initial velocity and is slowing down at the same time. This is how a projectile motion occurs.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;"><br /><strong>Objective:</strong><br />The main objective of the project is to demonstrate how a horizontal projectile motion occurs on<br />different initial velocities and different horizontal angle from the ground. This will help visualize<br />the ballistic trajectory traced out by the projectile.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;"><br /><strong>Tools Used:</strong><br />Atom IDE &ndash; Coding and Debugging<br />Terminal &ndash; Compiling Python Files<br />PyGL &ndash; OpenGL library on python</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;"><br /><strong>Mathematical Concepts:</strong><br />The variables and mathematical formulas of projectile motion are:<br /><strong>Velocity</strong>: vin = initial Velocity fired from ground<br /><strong>Acceleration</strong>: ax = 0, ay = -g where, ax, ay is the velocity across x-axis and y-axis<br /><strong>Acceleration due to gravity on Earth</strong>: gHorizontal angle made with X-axis: &theta;<br /><strong>Maximum height</strong>: ((vin)^2 * sin^2(&theta;))/2*g<br /><strong>Range</strong>: Horizontal distance traveled by projectile = (u^2*sin(2&theta;))/g<br /><strong>Time of Flight</strong>: (2*u*sin(&theta;))/g</p>
